OSDOCS#9971:Added breakglass feature modules for HCP clusters (#73863)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-break-glass-cred-cli.adoc

//
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-quickly.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-break-glass-cred-cli_{context}"]
= Creating a break glass credential for a {hcp-title} cluster

As a {hcp-title} cluster owner, you can use the break glass credential to create temporary administrative client credentials to access your clusters that are configured with custom OpenID Connect (OIDC) token issuers. Creating a break glass credential generates a new cluster-admin `kubeconfig` file. The `kubeconfig` file contains information about the cluster that the CLI uses to connect a client to the correct cluster and API server. You can use the newly generated `kubeconfig` file to allow access to the cluster in the following situations:

* Between the point at which the cluster is created and when the OIDC configuration is complete and authentication can occur through normal flows.
* If the OIDC compliant identity provider becomes unavailable or misconfigured.

.Prerequisites

* You have created a {hcp-title} cluster with external authentication enabled. For more information, see _Creating a {hcp-title} cluster that uses external authentication providers_.

> * You have an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

Author: Add what, sorry- the break glass credential?

> * You have an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

Reviewer: @EricPonvelle Is this still an issue? Did you apply the clusterrolebinding?

> * You have an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

Author: Thanks @chenz4027, we both managed to apply it in testing so I think we're good here.

> * You have an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

Reviewer: Nice, thanks @AedinC

[IMPORTANT]
====
Creating a break glass credential is not a replacement for deploying a primary identity provider to access your cluster.
====

.Procedure

. Create a break glass credential with one of the following commands.
** Create a break glass credential with no optional values. This method activates the interactive mode where you can provide values. If you do not enter values, the expiration duration defaults to 24 hours and the username defaults to your username.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create break-glass-credentials -c <cluster_name> <1>
----
<1> Replace <cluster_name> with the name of your cluster.
+
This command returns the new `kubeconfig` file.
+

> .Example output

Author: Double checked and it is there in the binary. Not sure why it's not showing.

+
[source,terminal]
----
I: Enabling interactive mode
? Username (optional):
? Expiration duration (optional):
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    server: <server_url>
  name: cluster
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: cluster
    namespace: default
    user: <user_name>
  name: admin
current-context: admin
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: test-user
  user:
    client-certificate-data: <client-certificate-data> <1>
    client-key-data: <client-key-data> <2>
----
<1> The client-certificate contains a certificate for the user signed by the Kubernetes certificate authorities (CA).
<2> The client-key contains the key that signed the client certificate.
+
** Create a break glass credential that saves the `kubeconfig` file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create break-glass-credential -c test-hcp --username test-username

> save-file --expiration 1h > kubeconfig

Author: Typo!

----
+
. Check the status of the break glass credential with one of the following commands:
+
** If you just want to view the status of the break glass credential, run the following command:
+
[NOTE]
====
Optional: If you do not add the `--kubeconfig` flag, the CLI prompts you to add it to retrieve the `kubeconfig` file for this credential.
====
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa describe break-glass-credential 2a7jli9n4phe6c02ul7ti91djtv2o51d -c cluster-id
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
ID:                                    2a7jli9n4phe6c02ul7ti91djtv2o51d
Username:                              test-user
Expire at:                             Mar 26 2024 10:23:05 EDT
Status:                                issued
----
+

> ** You can also check the status and save the `kubeconfig` to a local file by using the following command:

Author: Yep, makes a lot of sense!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-quickly.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-break-glass-cred-cli_{context}"]
= Creating a break glass credential for a {hcp-title} cluster

As a {hcp-title} cluster owner, you can use the break glass credential to create temporary administrative client credentials to access your clusters that are configured with custom OpenID Connect (OIDC) token issuers. Creating a break glass credential generates a new cluster-admin `kubeconfig` file. The `kubeconfig` file contains information about the cluster that the CLI uses to connect a client to the correct cluster and API server. You can use the newly generated `kubeconfig` file to allow access to the {hcp-title} cluster.

.Prerequisites

> * You have created a {hcp-title} cluster with external authentication enabled. For more information, see _Creating a {hcp-title} cluster that uses external authentication_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have created a {hcp-title} cluster with external authentication enabled. For more information, see _Creating a {hcp-title} cluster that uses external authentication providers_.
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list break-glass-credential -c mycluster
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
ID                                USERNAME    STATUS
2a7jli9n4phe6c02ul7ti91djtv2o51d  test-user   issued
----
+
[NOTE]
====
You can also view the credentials in a JSON output by adding the `-o json` argument to the command.
====

. View information about the break glass credential with one of the following commands:
+
** To view the status of the break glass credential, run the following command, replacing <break_glass_credential_id> with the break glass credential ID:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa describe break-glass-credential <break_glass_credential_id> -c <cluster_name>
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
ID:                                    2a7jli9n4phe6c02ul7ti91djtv2o51d
Username:                              test-user
Expire at:                             Dec 28 2026 10:23:05 EDT
Status:                                issued
----
+
The following is a list of possible `Status` field values:
+
* `issued` The break glass credential has been issued and is ready to use.
* `expired` The break glass credential has expired and can no longer be used.

> * `failed` The break glass credential has failed to create. In this case, you receive a service log detailing the failure. For more information about service logs, see _Accessing the service logs for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS clusters_. For steps to contact Red Hat Support for assistance, see _Getting support for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `failed` The break glass credential has failed to create. In this case, you receive a service log detailing the failure. For more information about service logs, see _Accessing the service logs for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS clusters_. For steps to contact Red Hat Support for assistance, see _Getting support_.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-quickly.adoc
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-ext-auth.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-break-glass-cred-cli_{context}"]
= Creating a break glass credential for a {hcp-title} cluster

As a {hcp-title} cluster owner, you can use the break glass credential to create temporary administrative client credentials to access your clusters that are configured with custom OpenID Connect (OIDC) token issuers. Creating a break glass credential generates a new cluster-admin `kubeconfig` file. The `kubeconfig` file contains information about the cluster that the CLI uses to connect a client to the correct cluster and API server. You can use the newly generated `kubeconfig` file to allow access to the {hcp-title} cluster.

.Prerequisites

> * You have created a {hcp-title} cluster with external authentication enabled. For more information, see _Creating {hcp-title} clusters with external authentication_.

Reviewer 2: The same here
```suggestion
* You have created a {hcp-title} cluster with external authentication enabled. For more information, see _Creating a {hcp-title} cluster that uses external authentication providers_.
```

* You have an account with `cluster admin` permissions.

.Procedure

. Create a break glass credential by using one of the following commands:

> ** Create a break glass credential by using the interactive mode to interactively specify custom settings:

Reviewer 3: Per [doc guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#procedure-step-that-introduces-a-command):
```suggestion
** To create a break glass credential by using the interactive mode to interactively specify custom settings, run the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create break-glass-credential -c <cluster_name> -i <1>
----
<1> Replace <cluster_name> with the name of your cluster.
+
.Example output

> +

Reviewer 3: The doc guidelines seem to suggest no space between the `.Exampe output` and `[source,terminal]`
```suggestion

```

[source,terminal]
----
I: Enabling interactive mode
? Username (optional): <1>
? Expiration duration (optional): <2>
I: Successfully created a break glass credential for cluster 'ac-hcp-test'.
----
<1> If left blank, the username defaults to your username.
<2> The minimum validity of the break glass credential is 10 minutes, and the maximum validity is 24 hours. If left blank, the expiration duration defaults to 24 hours.
+

> ** Create a break glass credential for cluster called `mycluster` with specified values:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** To create a break glass credential for cluster called `mycluster` with specified values, run the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create break-glass-credential -c mycluster --username test-username --expiration 1h
----
+
. List the break glass credential IDs, status, and associated user that is available for a cluster called `mycluster` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list break-glass-credential -c mycluster
----
+
.Example output

> +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

> . List the break glass credential IDs, status, and associated user that is available for a cluster called `mycluster` by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. List the break glass credential IDs, status, and associated users that is available for a cluster called `mycluster` by running the following command:
```

[source,terminal]
----
ID                                USERNAME    STATUS
2a7jli9n4phe6c02ul7ti91djtv2o51d  test-user   issued
----
+
[NOTE]
====
You can also view the credentials in a JSON output by adding the `-o json` argument to the command.
====

. View information about the break glass credential with one of the following commands:
+
** To view the status of the break glass credential, run the following command, replacing <break_glass_credential_id> with the break glass credential ID:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa describe break-glass-credential <break_glass_credential_id> -c <cluster_name>
----
+
.Example output

> +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

> ** To view the status of the break glass credential, run the following command, replacing <break_glass_credential_id> with the break glass credential ID:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** To view the status of a break glass credential, run the following command, replacing <break_glass_credential_id> with the break glass credential ID:
```

[source,terminal]
----
ID:                                    2a7jli9n4phe6c02ul7ti91djtv2o51d
Username:                              test-user
Expire at:                             Dec 28 2026 10:23:05 EDT
Status:                                issued
----
+
The following is a list of possible `Status` field values:
+
* `issued` The break glass credential has been issued and is ready to use.
* `expired` The break glass credential has expired and can no longer be used.

> * `failed` The break glass credential has failed to create. In this case, you will receive a service log detailing the failure. For more information about service logs, see _Accessing the service logs for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS clusters_. For steps to contact Red Hat Support for assistance, see _Getting support for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `failed` The break glass credential has failed to create. In this case, you receive a service log detailing the failure. For more information about service logs, see _Accessing the service logs for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS clusters_. For steps to contact Red Hat Support for assistance, see _Getting support for Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS_.
```

* `awaiting_revocation` The break glass credential is being revoked, meaning it cannot be used.
* `revoked` The break glass credential has been revoked and can no longer be used.
+
** Use the following command to retrieve the `kubeconfig`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa describe break-glass-credential <break_glass_credential_id> -c mycluster --kubeconfig
----
.Example output

> +

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

Author: I need the '+' here otherwise the example output does not indent correctly.

[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    server: <server_url>
  name: cluster
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: cluster
    namespace: default
    user: test-username
  name: admin
current-context: admin
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: test-user
  user:
    client-certificate-data: <client-certificate-data> <1>
    client-key-data: <client-key-data> <2>
----
<1> The client-certificate contains a certificate for the user signed by the Kubernetes certificate authorities (CA).
<2> The client-key contains the key that signed the client certificate.
+
** Use the following command to save the `kubeconfig`:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ rosa describe break-glass-credential <break_glass_credential_id> -c mycluster --kubeconfig > $KUBECONFIG

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ rosa describe break-glass-credential <break_glass_credential_id> -c mycluster --kubeconfig > KUBECONFIG
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-quickly.adoc
// * rosa_hcp/rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-cluster-ext-auth.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-hcp-sts-creating-a-break-glass-cred-cli_{context}"]
= Creating a break glass credential for a {hcp-title} cluster

As a {hcp-title} cluster owner, you can use the break glass credential to create temporary administrative client credentials to access your clusters that are configured with custom OpenID Connect (OIDC) token issuers. Creating a break glass credential generates a new cluster-admin `kubeconfig` file. The `kubeconfig` file contains information about the cluster that the CLI uses to connect a client to the correct cluster and API server. You can use the newly generated `kubeconfig` file to allow access to the {hcp-title} cluster.

.Prerequisites

> * You have created a {hcp-title} cluster with external authentication enabled. For more information, see _Creating a {hcp-title} with HCP cluster that uses external authentication providers_.

Reviewer 4: Is it required to add the link?

> * You have created an external authentication provider. For more information, see _Creating an external authentication provider_.

Reviewer 4: Is it required to add the link?

* You have an account with `cluster admin` permissions.

.Procedure

. Create a break glass credential by using one of the following commands:

** To create a break glass credential by using the interactive command interface to interactively specify custom settings, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create break-glass-credential -c <cluster_name> -i <1>
----
<1> Replace <cluster_name> with the name of your cluster.
+
This command starts an interactive CLI process:
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
I: Enabling interactive mode
? Username (optional): <1>
? Expiration duration (optional): <2>
I: Successfully created a break glass credential for cluster 'ac-hcp-test'.
----

> <1> If left blank, the username defaults to your username.

Reviewer 4: What does this sentence mean?
 `the username defaults to your username.`

> <1> If left blank, the value in the `username` field defaults to your username.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> If left blank, the value in the `username` field will have a randomly generated username value.
```

** Create a `kubeconfigs` directory:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ mkdir ~/kubeconfigs
----
+
** Export the newly generated `kubeconfig` file, replacing <cluster_name> with the name of your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ export CLUSTER_NAME=<cluster_name> && export KUBECONFIG=~/kubeconfigs/break-glass-${CLUSTER_NAME}.kubeconfig
----
+
** View the `kubeconfig`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa describe break-glass-credential <break_glass_credential_id> -c mycluster --kubeconfig
----
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
apiVersion: v1
clusters:
- cluster:
    server: <server_url>
  name: cluster
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: cluster
    namespace: default
    user: test-username
  name: admin
current-context: admin
kind: Config
preferences: {}
users:
- name: test-user
  user:
    client-certificate-data: <client-certificate-data> <1>
    client-key-data: <client-key-data> <2>
----
<1> The client-certificate contains a certificate for the user signed by the Kubernetes certificate authorities (CA).
<2> The client-key contains the key that signed the client certificate.
+
. Optional: To save the `kubeconfig`, run the following command :
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ rosa describe break-glass-credential <break_glass_credential_id> -c mycluster --kubeconfig > KUBECONFIG

Reviewer 2: Sorry but last change from my side, actually before it was giving error when used $, but now, it can be used, otherwise new KUBECONFIG file will be created. Thanks
```suggestion
$ rosa describe break-glass-credential <break_glass_credential_id> -c mycluster --kubeconfig >$ KUBECONFIG
```
